>> Mike North: All right,
so everything's going well.
You're using Lerna.
We're able to operate on small
portions of our project.
We're able to run tests or lint or
build only what's changed and
what's affected by what's changed.
Let's see if we can use sort of the full
fat build tool that's underneath this,
which is nx.
And we're gonna need to
globally install nx.
And I'm going to really just sort of
give you a little kind of preview or
an intro into what this can do.
But there's so
much depth with this tool and
I would encourage you
to learn more about it.
It's quite powerful.
So you're going to want to install
a global version of the tool and
you can either do like an NPM
install G for global, I use volta.
So you could say volta, install nx and
this will set up a global version for you.
You could use PNPM if you want, but
ultimately you just want to have something
that lives outside of the project.
Okay, and
now you're gonna run pnpm nx init and
this is like npx nx init.
Basically what we're saying
is run this init task, sorry,
run the init command using the nx cli, and
it's going to create a config file for us.
Well, actually this is more of
a choose your own adventure thing.
So making this the main
thing we're looking at.
So which scripts need to be run in order?
For example, before building a project,
dependent projects must be built.
So this is telling us which of these tasks
need to be sequenced versus which don't.
And I would say sure, let's go with test.
I mean we could test everything
if we wanted to in parallel, but
I kinda like to see that my low
level things pass their tests
because otherwise you're gonna
have low level tests that fail.
And then of course higher level tests
fail because something was broken
at a lower level.
So let's say that there's.
That I'm not going to worry
about these three and linting.
I feel like linting can happen in
parallel across my whole project.
There's no sense of a build
order there necessarily.
No, sorry, I'm wrong.
For linting to work properly,
we need declaration files to exist for
projects that we depend on.
So there is some sequencing there.
Let's leave it unchecked for
now and let's see what happens.
Okay, which scripts are cacheable?
This Means they produce the same
output given the same input.
Build, lint and test are usually falling
into this category and the others are not.
So I'm gonna say test yes, lint and
build yes, check yes and format.
Sure, we can say format yes, the rest no.
And here's the mental
model I want you to use.
You have a code base and
then you run a task and
there's some combination of standard out
and standard error that task produces.
And there may be files that it produces.
And if you could say,
running that task over and over and
over would have exactly the same result.
It's going to make the same files,
it's gonna have the same standard out.
You should check these boxes.
DEV is different because there's another
thing that happens there and that's
like I'm engaging with a UI or I'm making
requests and log lines are coming out.
I don't want that to be cached,
I want that to be live data.
That's happening.
Because what's gonna happen
when we complete this?
I want you to imagine.
Cause this is in essence what's happening.
When you run test and
you haven't changed your code at all.
Instead of running your test, NX will just
spit out the same test results that it
already knows it should have based on
the fact that you already ran them and
you haven't touched anything.
It will appear like the command
is running instantly.
When you understand that that's how this
is working, apply that mental model to
which of these things you should be taking
off the test UI and the watch thing.
These are more ongoing things.
Coverage is fair.
This generates a code coverage report.
It's going to be the same code coverage.
If I don't add a test, the code coverage
report should look exactly the same.
So let's leave it at those.
Does the test script create any outputs?
If not, leave blank.
Otherwise provide a path
relative to the project root.
It does not.
The test coverage task does.
Yes, this does.
Does the lint script create outputs?
It does not.
There's no report it's creating,
just standard out.
Dist and well, we're going to find where
this is and we'll edit in the config file.
I'm not sure how this is going to behave
if I add comma separated things here, but
it's the dist folder and
it's the ts build info files.
Does the check script create any outputs?
No, it does not.
Does the format script?
Okay, now it's going and doing its thing,
installing a Bunch of dependencies.
Do we want remote caching?
I'm gonna say yes.
Now, eventually NX will charge you for
remote build caching.
They give you a generous free amount.
So it's worth checking out and
in my opinion, it's worth paying for
fast builds or
something you're really chasing.
It's really just to store.
Not necessarily like it's
storing the console output or
the files that are created and
a hash of the inputs.
And that means that if you build
something on your machine and
then I build something on my machine and
the inputs are exactly the same,
I get to benefit from your
pre existing build result.
That is work that is already done.
It does not need to be done on my machine.
If we're really honest about
those builds being cacheable,
it is only as good as your judgment around
whether builds are truly cacheable or not.
I'm using an M4 MacBook, somebody else
might be using an X86 processor and
there's some native dependency
that we both need and
maybe that's going to screw things up.
But like for CI machines where you can
routinely rely on them being like we're
running this in Docker, it is going
to be the same thing no matter what.
No hardware access,
no direct access to hardware.
So it's like going to be very,
very predictable.
>> Student: Actually it touches on, I was
gonna ask, would you trust the caching
enough for if you had a test suite
that was running before a deploy?
Is this reliable enough that you would
consider caching that or would you
after it's been run on local machines,
before the main deploy actually run it?
>> Mike North: I would trust this,
I'm putting my,
remember where I work,
we gotta make sure that we're
actually running tests right
before deploy for sure.
But if you were saying, well, the PR
builds like validating code in those
PR branches, knowing that ultimately
before things are deployed,
we're running the pipeline
on the main branch anyway.
I would totally put something like this in
place and especially upstream of that for
developer builds,
keeping that nice and productive.
Basically the closer to authoring you get,
the more I'm willing to
tolerate using a cached build.
And it also depends on the task, if it's
linting, I'm much more okay with that.
But if we're saying the build output,
like the actual compiled
output of the typescript,
I would want that to be created fresh,
you know?
Does that make sense?
>> Student: Yeah, I think just
anytime you're caching things,
I've Run into stale caches
enough that totally.
I'm skeptical, but
it seems like a cool idea.
>> Mike North: It's a cool idea and
I think it's a no-brainer for
some kinds of tasks.
Like, would I be fine with
prettier being cached?
Absolutely.
Like single quotes, double quotes.
I mean, I'm sure you could.
Someone can find a significant
security vulnerability that
occurred cuz someone used double quotes or
they should have used single quotes.
Generally is not going to matter.
All right,
which plugins would you like to add?
And it's giving me an opportunity
to check things off.
NX is pretty good at inferring what
already exists in your project and setting
up plugins for itself so that it can
engage with with these kinds of things.
Really, and what are these plugins for?
Think of them as replacements for
your NPM tasks.
Where it knows how to invoke vite.
It allows you in an NX config file instead
of passing arguments to the vite cli,
you can have configuration
that you check in.
And it's a little bit more maintainable
that way because you're not trying to look
at 12 flags that you're passing to
the CLI in some shell script somewhere.
All right, we're gonna install those.
Do you want to start using NX
in your package JSON scripts?
I want to say no to this.
If I were to say yes, what it'll do is
it will reach into my package JSON,
grab the existing scripts,
move them into an NX task that
is effectively like their shell out task,
right,
just like run this command, and
then it would replace everything
in the package JSON with an NX
based invocation of that task.
In fact, we could do it both ways.
Let's try it this way.
And then we can reset and
try it the other way if we want.
But I would rather show you one
off how this is going to work.